---
inFeed: true
description: >-
  Corey had been waffling between daydreaming and almost caring for thirty-some
  years.  His whims chased butterflies down dreamy pathways and eventually those
  butterflies flew into the searing white sunlight — the kind that hurts your
  eyes and makes your ears ring while you blink to recover your sight.  Was it
  happy-go-lucky?  Or was he lost at sea with his compass needle tracing lazy
  circles?  Was his melody merely decorated with chromatic notes, or had his
  song been changing key?  He needed to either jump in with both feet or find
  something else to do.  Shit or get off the pot.  And somewhere Yoda was saying
  "Do, or Do Not: there is no try."  No more wishy-washy wallflower toe-dipping
  bullshit anymore.  It was time to go all in.
dateModified: '2017-06-08T05:22:28.933Z'
datePublished: '2017-06-08T05:22:29.512Z'
title: Missing
author: []
publisher: {}
via: {}
starred: false
datePublishedOriginal: '2017-06-08T05:22:29.512Z'
sourcePath: _posts/2017-06-08-missing.md
_type: Blurb

---
# Missing

Corey had been waffling between daydreaming and almost caring for thirty-some years. His whims chased butterflies down dreamy pathways and eventually those butterflies flew into the searing white sunlight --- the kind that hurts your eyes and makes your ears ring while you blink to recover your sight. Was it happy-go-lucky? Or was he lost at sea with his compass needle tracing lazy circles? Was his melody merely decorated with chromatic notes, or had his song been changing key? He needed to either jump in with both feet or find something else to do. Shit or get off the pot. And somewhere Yoda was saying "Do, or Do Not: there is no try." No more wishy-washy wallflower toe-dipping bullshit anymore. It was time to go all in.

How one could rack up $12,000 in credit card debt from $5 or $10 purchases of cupcakes and chewing gum was beyond him. If he made the minimum monthly payments to Citibank and Bank of America for about $400 a month he could get out of this debt in 5 years... so long as he didn't miss a single payment and was never late... ever. Fuck... there was that Chase credit card too. And student loans. Kyle and Ev and Teri and Brice --- they had no idea about debt like this, and besides, they were all uninjured and could work full hours, and they all liked their jobs, and hell, they all got paid more. Even his library card had been frozen due to unpaid fines. Shit... so maybe it was looking more like payments of $700 a month for the next 8 years? His father was the physics teacher with the mathematical bent, but Corey... it made his head hurt. He wanted a cupcake.

Maybe it was failing the smog check that finally did it. All men go crazy at some point, but Corey had kept that at bay for a good long while. When the technicians said the Dodge wasn't running cleanly and they still charged him $71 for the test, something inside Corey cracked like an egg. Humpty Dumpty the fence-sitter finally had a definite trajectory. The yolk hadn't come out yet, but all the king's horses and all the king's men couldn't put him back together again. We didn't even hear it crack. Maybe Corey didn't either. 

Why had his father given him this piece of shit Intrepid if it needed so much maintenance? If it couldn't pass smog, he couldn't get it registered, and if he couldn't get it registered, he didn't qualify for the car-repair financial assistance program, and if he couldn't get financial assistance then he couldn't get the repairs done that would make the car pass the smog check. "There's a hole in the bucket, dear Liza, dear Liza..."

The yolk started to show a few days later when Kyle went into Corey's room to turn off a light that he'd left on. It was followed by an explosive outburst from Corey, which the police later referred to as "the argument" --- it was a symptom more than a cause, but nobody knew that then. Never mind that he shouldn't have left the light on in the first place, never mind that he hadn't paid rent, never mind that it was Kyle who paid the utility bills, it's my room dammit and why should you care what I do in here?

It doesn't take a large crack for yolk to escape. You can blow an eggshell dry with two tiny holes as long as they are in the right place. And this was the right place. Maybe if things had worked out with that girl in high school or maybe if Jack Kerouac didn't make so much goddamn sense or maybe if his mother hadn't died so suddenly, it would all be different, wouldn't it? This was probably it, though. All in?

After the argument, Kyle and Teri gave him space. Corey was already feeling the power of his emotion over the non-confrontational --- they huddled oblivious in the living room watching TV and eating dinner while he floated through the empty space of the tunnels he had blasted. He grabbed his wallet and his keys. Maybe he should go to Home Depot in Oakland. But would Alameda have what he needed? Yeah, probably. He walked to the South Shore shopping center. All in?

He stared at ropes in the pallid flickering of florescent lights in the back of the hardware store. The 5/8 inch braided polypropylene was probably the strongest, but he didn't like its blue weave, and it might rot in the sunlight. The 3/16 inch nylon was more graceful, but thin. Too delicate? These giant spools looked like trouble --- like raw ingredients you had to slave over to produce a meal, and Corey didn't want to hassle with measuring out the footage. In the end he decided on 100 feet of plastic-wrapped \#7 cotton clothesline. It was thicker than the nylon, but softer, and it was in one convenient package.

What about seeds? Yes, seeds... there were so many varieties. Tomatoes were the most common, but maybe eggplants were more ready for the garden. Minecraft was focused on wheat, but honestly, you can't buy wheat in stores, can you? How about watermelons? Corey debated this a bit with the middle-aged cashier who saw him consternated in the aisle. Or maybe he should get radishes. Would this distract her from the clothesline? Under other circumstances, radishes would sound good right now --- maybe on a slice of sushi or with some creamy ricotta. Or on a cuban pork sandwich. Cuban would be good. He went with the radishes, totaling $11 and change. 

Footage from the security cameras would later reveal that Corey skulked around the parking lot, meandering the circumference, stalking an uncertain future. Eventually his faltering gave way to small comforts, and he entered the McDonald's and bought a cheeseburger to go, then exited north on foot back to the apartment.

It was a brisk walk back home, maybe a mile. The sounds of the harbor drifted into the street, and now and then a car glided past. Corey marched in his Oakland A's cap and hoodie, straddling the yellow line of the empty street. One foot on either side --- equidistant from the left and right curbs, balancing right down the middle like a tight-rope walker. He could have walked through the mud puddles on the left, or he could have walked through the gravel planters on the right, but then he would have had to dodge the power line support cables and cacti planted there. So he walked down the center of the road as the stars began to come out. Familiar things seemed out of place --- the Wash-Dry, the Party Warehouse, Dimitra's Sandwiches... silhouettes chiseled into the horizon like it was their first day on Earth. Or had they been here forever?

Corey was capable of anything right then... yes, anything. The idea had coalesced and become recognizable a few weeks ago --- it started to become clearer to him as surely as the yellow yolk was distinct from the whites. When you're making tough choices, you gotta be all in. You can't be asking questions all the time. Choices and questions are painful --- always looking down both sides of a ridge, always cocking your head back and forth in uncomfortable snatches. Motion brings resolution. There are only two kinds of motion: one that gets you somewhere and one that doesn't. 

Rotational motion always brings you back to the same tired place --- you could travel across the universe and eventually it would leave you exactly where it found you. You can't vacillate indefinitely if you expect to get anywhere in this life. He needed linear motion: a force that would take (and leave) him somewhere. Sometimes the way ahead is dark and murky and you don't know if you're making the right choice or not, but you can't wait for lightning to strike --- otherwise it'll be dark with the moon up while you're still standing at the fork-in-the-path, unable to choose and ultimately devoured by werewolves and vampires. He had to get out of this fork --- whatever protective charms he may have once had were gone. The first attempt hadn't gone smoothly, and fuck the bugbears and the false start with the garden hose and exhaust pipe, he wasn't going to fail again.

He opened the door to the apartment and went upstairs to his room. Kyle and Teri remained unseen in the living room. Corey exhaled and emptied his pockets: his wallet and his phone he placed next to his glasses and camera and ten-sided dice. "Man up!" Corey told himself, "choose a path, and go ALL IN!" The vampires were coming, and Corey did not dawdle.

He drove a few blocks to the Grand Marina with expired plates. He parked the car facing the water and ate his cheeseburger thoughtfully. Thoughts coalesced and exploded and died with each juicy bite. He cut a couple lengths of clothesline --- about six feet is what he needed. Maybe more? To be sure, he doled out a couple extra feet and cut it with a pair of scissors from the glove box. Maybe the seeds were a dumb idea. Dammit, he was always overthinking things like this. He tossed them onto the floorboard along with his cheeseburger wrapper, and took a deep breath. He stepped out into the night one last time. 

---------

For the weeks following, we were left asking the questions. "Where did he go? Why? When did you see him last? Did he leave a note?" But nothing explained the vacancy. One of three things had happened, and two of them were deeply unpleasant. We printed posters and hung them, knocked on doors and made phone calls. But we only uncovered more questions. Some people helpfully chided us, saying "you need more information on this poster", as if we had more information to give. Missing: 5'7", 150lbs, brown hair, blue eyes, thin build. Last seen February 15th. Left home Saturday leaving behind phone, wallet, glasses. Car found abandoned at Grand Marina. 

"I haven't seen him" said the woman from behind the screen door that corralled her cats and piles of yarn. The Boo Radley next door turned off the light and didn't answer the bell. The boat people at the marina thought he had found passage to Mexico or Costa Rica. The truckers thought he had hitched a ride in a big rig. The police didn't say what they thought, but they sent divers to search the bottom of the channel near the docks. 

Everyone's theories were shallow reflections of their own simple lives based on narcissistic thoughts that others were like them, that Corey must have done what they themselves might do. The assumption was that you could make forecasts by deducing vectors and extrapolating trajectories and coordinates. But some paths are like holes in the continuum, ripples in reality, blind spots hiding in plain view. Like prime numbers, they are never the product of multiplying factors: there is no shortcut to land you there. Some paths are invisible unless you walk them and meditate on them and feel their uniqueness. On the surface they look like any other, nestled between their neighbors, but some have a secret that takes patience and footwork to reveal. Unless you plunge headfirst into the wild, you will never know that some paths are even there.

In Santa Cruz and Aptos I walked through the rain trying to hang posters where they would not stick, my soaking wet jeans rubbing hair off my thighs. Normally I can orient north, but on that ragged loop of road, I drove confused circles through the woods as the fog and rain tightened around me. A bevy of quail ran into a meadow where some grass had been cut. I could hear Corey's baritone voice singing Paul Simon and the buzz of his guitar, but I could only see as far as the No Trespassing signs in the grainy beams of my headlights. It wasn't Corey who was lost, it was me. It was my sense of direction, not his, that was choking in this darkening haze. Where ever he was, Corey had transcended the oscillations that had defined his life and he had succeeded in being unequivocal. He had finally broken free of his endless eccentric orbits. 

A compass needle aligns like a weathervane, finding the orientation of least resistance in the gusts of magnetic waves. But what hidden wind was blowing here? What secret correction had taken place? I felt the heavy dread that I would never know. Maybe he was homeward bound, or maybe he'd walked off in search of America. Maybe he boarded a Greyhound in Oakland and hitch-hiked to Saginaw. Michigan seemed like a dream to me now, and somewhere beyond the rain and fear, the moon rose over an open field.